Final edits (#5896)
sourcegraph/about: content/blogposts/2022/openssl-307-vulnerabilities.md

The most likely path by which this can be exploited is by having OpenSSL parse a certificate, allowing an attacker to control the email addresses in the certificate.

OpenSSL 3.0.0 to 3.0.6 is affected. No prior OpenSSL version (including OpenSSL 1.1, which is probably still the most commonly used version) is vulnerable.

## How can you mitigate the issue?

### Upgrades

The general advice for OpenSSL 3 users is to upgrade to OpenSSL 3.0.7 as soon as possible.

For users who are only using OpenSSL transitively as a dynamic dependency, this really means rebuilding container images and ensuring bare-metal servers are upgraded to the current version of OpenSSL. 

### Other mitigations

OpenSSL recommends disabling TLS client authentication if it's not strictly necessary until an upgrade can be performed. [Per the FAQ](https://www.openssl.org/blog/blog/2022/11/01/email-address-overflows/):

#### The low level API, and C and C++ users

> Client authentication is ultimately enabled by setting [the SSL_VERIFY_PEER option](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man3/SSL_CTX_set_verify.html) when issuing or handling a TLS request. The problem is that this option is also used by clients for innocuous purposes, and there are no API differences between server and client mode — or, for that matter, vulnerable and non-vulnerable versions of OpenSSL — to craft a one-size-fits-all code search.

Reviewer: @LawnGnome would you reframe this section, or pull it? Mainly “The problem is that this option is also used by clients for innocuous purposes, and there are no API differences between server and client mode” is giving me pause.

Reviewer 2: The idea there is basically just messaging that "code search is somewhere between an overly blunt tool and completely useless in this context".

A simpler version of this would be something like:

> TLS client authentication is triggered by setting the `SSL_VERIFY_PEER` flag when handling a TLS request. However, this flag is also used by unrelated client requests, so searching for `SSL_VERIFY_PEER` is unhelpful on its own.

(f:requirements.*txt cryptography(\s*[=~]=\s*(36\.|37\.|38\.0\.[0-2]))) OR (f:poetry.lock name\s*=\s*"cryptography" AND version\s*=\s*"(36\.|37\.|38\.0\.[0-2]))
```

#### PHP

Same general situation as Python. Users are unlikely to be affected, and if they are, a simple upgrade of the base image and rebuild should suffice.

#### Rust

Rust projects tend to use either OpenSSL or rustls to provide SSL/TLS functionality. Rustls users are unaffected.

Most OpenSSL users will use the openssl crate in its default mode, which links to the system OpenSSL, which means that a normal image/binary rebuild will work for them. However, it's possible to configure the openssl crate to use an embedded OpenSSL, in which case [this query](https://sourcegraph.com/search?q=context:global+f:Cargo.lock+openssl-src+AND+version%5Cs*%3D%5Cs*%22300%5C.%5B0-9%5C.%5D%2B%5C%2B3%5C.0%5C.%5B0-6%5D&patternType=regexp) should reveal projects that need to be updated:

```regex
f:Cargo.lock openssl-src AND version\s*=\s*"300\.[0-9\.]+\+3\.0\.[0-6]
```

#### Go

Go uses its own, completely independent SSL implementation. No action required.

## OpenSSL Checker

> You can use our bookmarklet-based OpenSSL Checker tool available at [https://sourcegraph-community.github.io/openssl-checker/](https://sourcegraph-community.github.io/openssl-checker/) to check if your own projects are affected.

Reviewer 2: Waters down the takeaway, but is more accurate (_insert Futurama technically correct joke here_):

```suggestion
You can use our bookmarklet-based OpenSSL Checker tool available at [https://sourcegraph-community.github.io/openssl-checker/](https://sourcegraph-community.github.io/openssl-checker/) to check if your Rust and Python projects are affected.
```
